In six months, he went from zero,
basically nothing to selling this
company for 80 million plus dollars to
Wix. The funny thing is that base 44,
for the first time in my life, was not
trying to build the biggest thing ever.
Me and my girlfriend, we were on a
plane. I told her, hey, you know what?
If we get to 1.5 million till the end of
2025, we're going to buy a nice car. And
we got there in like 4 weeks. I feel
like the journey that you've been on
over the last 6 months is kind of like
the dream for a lot of founders. How
long were you actually solo? The first
person started a month and a half before
the acquisition. So I think it's a
different ball game because even if
you're solo, you're literally managing
teams of AI writing code. I don't think
I've written a single line of HTML or
JavaScript in the past 3 months. You're
competing against very wellunded
companies, Lovable, Bolt, Replet,
Versell. How did you get your first 10
users? I started with three users,
really close friends. I got them to sit
down with me every other day around the
table and they would use the the tool.
They will try to build something. It
will break. I'll take a look and then
just build it for them. I'm not going to
try and scale anything before I know
that users enjoy it. And the best metric
to to seeing them enjoying it is that
they're starting to share it with
someone. Today my guest is Mayor
Schlommo. This is a unique episode
because I almost never have
conversations with earlystage founders.
I made an exception because Mayor's
journey is in many ways the dream for a
lot of founders. Mayor started a company
called Base 44, which is essentially a
more advanced vibe coding tool. 6 months
later, just a few weeks ago, he sold a
company for $80 million to Wix. He's a
solo founder. It was just him for most
of those 6 months. He never raised any
money. He bootstrapped it and built it
purely off profits. When he launched it
on Product Hunt, it got so much love
that the Product Hunt algorithm thought
that it was bots when it was really just
people from all over the world wanting
to support the product. In our
conversation, Mayor shares exactly how
he grew the product from zero to 10 to
100 to hundreds of thousands of users.
His tech stack that allowed him to move
so fast. The tools that he uses to be
super productive as a solo founder with
severe ADHD. Also, the super important
insight that everyone needs to hear
about how he came up with the idea and
then refined the idea. also just a bunch
of common growth tactics that he tried
that didn't work for him and some key
advice for anyone looking to start their
own bootstrapped company. A big thank
you to Nam Seagal and Amir Klein for
suggesting topics for this conversation.
If you enjoy this podcast, don't forget
to subscribe and follow it in your
favorite podcasting app or YouTube. With
that, I bring you Mayor Schlommo. This
episode is brought to you by Sauce. The
way teams turn feedback into product
impact is stuck in the past. vague
reports, static taxonomies, unactionable
insights that don't move business
metrics. The result, churn, lost deals,
miss growth. Sauce is the AI product
co-pilot that helps CPOS and product
teams uncover business impact and act
faster. It listens to your sales calls,
support tickets, churn reasons, and lost
deal, surfacing the biggest product
issues and opportunities in real time.
It then routes them to the right teams
to turn signals into PRDS, prototypes,
and even code that drives revenue
retention and adoption. That's why
whatnot, Linkree, Incident.io, and Zip
use Sauce. One enterprise uncovered a
product gap that unlocked $16 million
ARR. Another caught a spiking issue and
prevented millions in churn. You can too
at s.app/lenny.
Sauce, built for AI product teams. Don't
get left behind.
This episode is brought to you by Dcout.
Design teams today are expected to move
fast, but also to get it right. That's
where Dout comes in. Dcout is the
all-in-one research platform built for
modern product and design teams. Whether
you're running usability tests,
interviews, surveys, or in the wild
fieldwork, Dcot makes it easy to connect
with real users and get real insights
fast. You can even test your Figma
prototypes directly inside the platform.
No juggling tools, no chasing ghost
participants. And with the industry's
most trusted panel plus AI powered
analysis, your team gets clarity and
confidence to build better without
slowing down. So if you're ready to
streamline your research, speed up
decisions, and design with impact, head
to dcout.com to learn more. That's
dsc.com.
The answers you need to move
confidently.
Mayor, thank you so much for being here.
Welcome to the podcast. I am so excited
to do that. Thank you for having me,
Lenny. It's my pleasure. I don't
actually do conversations like this
often with early stage founders, but I'm
really excited to be doing this because
I feel like the journey that you've been
on over the last six months is kind of
like the dream for a lot of founders,
uh, especially founders that don't want
to build massive teams, that don't want
to raise a ton of money. Basically, the
journey you've been on is build a
product. People loved it. It grew like
crazy. You didn't raise any money. You
sold it for $80 million. We'll talk
about this uh 6 months in. And I know
it's not all rainbows and butterflies
and this amazing, you know, happy moment
to moment all day, but I know it's a lot
of hard work, but this is just what a
lot of people want to achieve when they
start a company. And you're just in the
thick of it right now. Like you just
announced your acquisition. So, I feel
like this is a really unique point in
time to extract as much wisdom out of
your head as possible. Really the right
time to kind of like reflect back and uh
Yeah, I think there's going to be many
more times, but this is a really unique
time. Let's start with a couple basics.
Just what what is B 44 for folks that
aren't super familiar with the product
that you built? Base 44 is an AI AI app
building platform, meaning that you are
able to use natural language to describe
what you want to build an app, a game,
um a website or something like that, and
then have AI code it for you. Um we're
not the first ones doing that. I think
it's a very uh crowded category but I
think base 44 takes a very different
approach a very opinionated one uh for
and one that that users or users like to
call it a batteries included approach uh
which means that for every app that you
build in base 44 you already have
builtin included a database integrations
user management analytics
um without connecting thirdparty
services or bringing your API I keys and
so on. And I think it helps a lot when
you're trying to scale a vibe coded
application
uh to be very complex and very
functional. And so yeah, I think for
most of the category nowadays, they're
doing a fantastic job. One with building
react web apps like front- end web apps
and then when a user needs um some
backend stuff, uh they have a great
integration with superbase. Superbase I
think is the most common kind like thing
that that most competitors use. Um and
honestly all of them are doing a great
job with the integration but as the
nature of an integration I think it's
potentially slightly uh less strong than
building everything full stack builtin
and once we did that and actually uh I
engineered the the endpoints and the
SDKs and whatever to work well with LLMs
I think B 44 does a really good job with
building very complex and functional
real world applications. Okay. Uh, I
want to talk about the origin story of
just like how you even realized that
there was an opportunity here. Clearly,
it worked out. But before we get there,
let me just share a couple stats about
this journey to give people a sense of
just how crazy this is. And add anything
I'm missing. So, in six months, you went
from zero, basically nothing, to selling
this company for 80 million plus dollars
to Wix. Uh, it took you three weeks to
hit a million dollars ARR. You
bootstrapped this business. I think you
put in a few tens of thousands of
shekeuckles, not even US dollars. You
have something like 400,000 users right
now. You're solo a founder. Uh there are
two different wars involved in the
journey. You're based in Israel, so you
have to deal with that. And we're going
to talk about some of the stories. Any
other stats that are worth sharing?
Anything else that's important high
level before we get into the origin
story? No, I don't think so. I think uh
it it like looking back it sounds uh
insane, but mostly this is it. Okay.
I love I love that perspective. Okay.
So, how did this start? There were two
things I think that drove me to it. One,
my girlfriend needed like a website to
capture leads. She has like a small
business. Uh she's like an artist and I
tried building that with like one of the
tools out there for website building,
not an AI powered one. And it was such a
pain trying to do that one kind like
designing with a drag and drop and
everything and then things get messed up
in mobile and you try again. And it's
like and then how do you manage your
data and so on and and and in my
previous company we dealt a lot with
LLMs and when while I was doing that I
was like it doesn't make any sense. I
know models can write the code to do
exactly what I'm trying to do right now
like build a website for my girlfriend
or build like slightly more complicated
than a website was actually a web app.
Um I know models can do that. They just
they don't have the right infrastructure
to do that. Like if I set up an
infrastructure for like hey here the
leads go to the database uh like okay
you can write react code and it will
serve it and it will be great from an
SEO perspective and so on then I'll
notice like it's going to be super easy
and she can do it on on her own. And the
other trigger
I was volunteering to help with the
scouts organization here in Israel uh
with like everything that has to do with
like uh system and software and and back
office systems that that they needed and
and back then the like it's a huge
organization by the way really huge like
tens of thousands of people um and they
have many as as any other organization
in the world that we're constantly
living at has many software needs. And
so every time they needed to build
something, they didn't have any internal
devs, you know, any software engineers.
So they'd reach out to other agencies
and agencies usually would quote them
like a million bucks just to build
something that I knew people could
build. I was and still, by the way, a
huge fan of tools like Retool for like
uh the previous uh wave of like no code
uh tools, but then those tools were
really more of like low code tools,
right? They still needed to know some
JavaScript something to make them work
to have the interruption, right? And
again also back then I was like I know
for the software and systems that they
want to build. I know it could be done.
It just LM can write that and we can
really empower the organization to build
all the different tools that they want.
just give it the right setting, the
right infrastructure so that the LLM has
access to a database, maybe to another
LLM to build like the the app on top of
AI, uh to have some user management, to
have all those kind of things that it
needs, but it can translate the user
needs to actual code. Um so those two
were triggers
back then. Um, I started a company 7
years ago called Explorium. Very
different than Pace 44. Very much like
enterprise top down sales uh in the data
space. Uh, very capital heavy. We raised
$130 million. I was a CEO for 7 years.
Uh, then when the October 7th war uh
broke out, I went to reserves for like
almost a year. And then when I came out,
I went to travel the world a bit just to
to take some time off and wanted to do
what I was like what I like the most and
I haven't had a chance because exploring
grew and grew uh and haven't had a
chance for a while to do which is uh
coding. Wanted to get back to building
and get my hands dirty. And so I had
those like given those experiences both
with my my partner, my girlfriend and
also with the scouts. I was like, let's
take a shot at it and start the product
that I know is going to be very very fun
to build. And I think when you're
approaching it this way and like not the
usual way of like let's raise a ton of
money and try to own the category. Uh,
and I knew I'm always getting into a
very crowded category. I also knew that
I have like some some different angle
and some different take on the category.
Um, but when you're approaching it this
way, it's like there's not a lot to lose
and I think it gives a lot of energy.
Um, and that's how base 44 started. It
definitely definitely didn't think it's
going to take off so fast. Um, but yep,
that's pretty much about it. Okay. I
like that you don't take good credit for
the work you did to help it take off so
fast. I'm excited to talk through that.
Just first a few maybe takeaways from
what you just shared of how this idea
emerged for folks that are looking for
ideas. Uh, one is clearly you were
solving somebody's real problem, your
own problem, helping your girlfriend
build this this uh, website for her and
then working with this uh, the scouts
program in Israel. Basically building
them software. So, so I think that's a
really important takeaway. You weren't
just like, hey, maybe this will be
useful to someone. It's I have a real
problem. I need I want to solve it and
nothing out there is good enough, so I'm
going to build it myself. Uh, the other
is you said that you're having fun.
Feels like that's an important element
just like you should enjoy it. you
shouldn't feel like it's some kind of
drag. You know what I feel like in like
when I was a first timer when I first
started my my first company exploring I
felt like uh many smart people told me
those two very important truth uh is
like build something that that you would
want to use or that you'll actually use
and make sure that throughout time you
keep doing something that you really
like. And so when you're first- timerr
or at least for myself when I heard
those kind of things I was like yeah
those are cliches business is always
important let's increase revenue like
let's close more deals um and I feel
like like those are even though it
sounds like a cliche it's so much easier
one building something that you'll
actually use so I actually tried solving
both problems like I was building the
the product and at the same time
developing those those two products for
my girlfriend, for the scouts, uh, and
later on also for other friends and
family. And we'll get to that. That's
how I got like my first couple of users.
But super important to build something
that you use. You'll move forward so
much faster. Uh, but also doing
something that you love. I think I was
the CEO of Exploring for 7 years. It was
such a fantastic experience. It had so
many highs and lows, but at some at some
point it grew. And it took me too much
time to realize that what I really like
doing is just building products and
scaling products and not necessarily
like being a CEO, managing sales,
managing HR, managing all those kind of
things. Um, and I think that that gives
a lot of power like it's it's easier to
work very hard uh when you're doing
something you really like. Let's follow
that thread and talk about being a solo
founder. I think this is something a lot
of founders like you know it's hard to
find a co-founder that out of the blue
when you have an idea uh YC famously
doesn't like solo founders so I think
there's a lot of power in what you've
achieved so let me just ask you first of
all any I guess lessons about being a
solo founder that you think would be
helpful for other fe people considering
starting company on their own and also
just how do you stay productive how do
you get stuff done as a solo founder
using AI one solo founder and specific
specifically bootstrapping
it's not for like I don't think it's
suitable for every use case right if
you're building like a B2B company
especially if you're like doing a B2
enterprise company like you'll need to
hire a salesperson or sales team like
you need to like spend your money on
marketing it's going to be very hard to
try to sell to a company when you're on
your own and nobody knows if the
product's going to stay there tomorrow
so I don't think it's like the right
setting for every company I feel I feel
like if you're building something that
has the potential to be viral uh to
target the masses. And so it doesn't
really matter if you're like funded or
not. You just like build a great product
that people will share. If you're able
to do that and you're able to get out of
like the escape velocity of of getting
to product market feed, then everything
is better doing a solo bootstrap than
than the other way around. One else like
even from a pure cold angle of like the
financial outcome obviously if you're
able to bootstrap your business and and
and again get out of like the scape be
profitable to some degree then you'll
likely generate a financial outcome
that's I think for most cases way better
than than any other any other thing.
Second is so not specifically the solo
but the boot stopping thing less
stressful like you wake up in the
morning as like if you're profitable and
and there's like I think there's like
this term default alive it's so much
easier I've done both and the weight of
uh raising so much fund even if your
investors are great and my investors
were awesome and they were always
supportive and so on but even so I feel
like uh being bootstrap like no other
money except of yours in the business
and the and the business is growing and
and and profitable I feel like can can
keep the energies up and I think I keep
like one thing that I've learned from my
previous company is like energies are
super important usually it's a marathon
for me it was a sprint I thought it's
going to be a marathon but you want to
do something that you like for years and
years and if you if you're able to show
up every day then your your chances kind
like goes up immediately
Um but then there's like a lot of a lot
of downside and a lot of stressful
moments doing that. Um one just keeping
the software up, keeping the servers up
when you're solo, you don't have a
DevOps team, you don't have on call, you
don't have anything I think is really
tough. I had a few accidents that that
really I'm I'm joking about that but I
saying it to my friends like shorten my
life a bit with just like the stress.
Um, I had one funny, now I look at it as
a funny moment where um, I was at my
brother's wedding and we were doing the
photo shoots and I was actually the one
actually was supposed to also do the
ceremony and then during the photo
shoots I have a friend from MIT calls me
up and he's like, "Hey, somebody hacked
into base 44 um, and it's like a crypto
scam and you've got to take care of that
because people are building apps on top
of B 44 and they're putting the data
inside and so on and I remember like
hanging up the phone I was like okay
I'll take a look at it immediately I
remember hanging up the phone and saying
I know like it's such it's it's karma I
know for a fact it's true somebody
probably hacked into that because what
are the chances that on the only night
that I'm not able to open up a laptop
and handle that uh this is what happens
um And so I I I threw out there some
excuse and like I have to go and like
practice towards the ceremony or
something like that. Open up a laptop,
spend two hours, two very scary hours of
my life. It ended up being just the LLM.
Tried using a package called
cryptography which is like a NodeJS like
a JavaScript package has nothing to do
with crypto. But obviously the the user,
not the technical user, saw this error
of like, hey, something cryptography or
something like that was sure that
someone like a crypto scam hacked into
into their app. And so you have a lot of
those like moments that
the whole thing is like you're not able
to share it with anyone, share the
burden even or the stress or put anyone
on top of it and say, "Hey, you know
what? I'm out for today. Like you handle
that." In my previous company, my two
co-founders, we were really good
friends, like great friends, and even if
um one of us would mess up, then still
would have someone to share it with and
run jokes around and like and and just
be there with someone. So, when you're
solo, it's hard. Um
and then brutal prioritization, which is
something you have to do because you
have to keep up the pace of the product.
And obviously nowadays with AI and like
everyone can build software like you
have to go extremely fast on one side
and on the other side figure out
marketing along the way and and how to
do that and every time I remember that
every time I had this ceremony where I'd
start the day and try to
look inside and ask myself what do I
need to work on today and what do I want
to work on today. So what I when I woke
on today was always like I want to code
like that's what I like to do. Let's
improve the product. I know there's like
a bug that that uh uh makes like annoys
some of the users. I know there's like
the feature that that's in my head that
I'm saying oh competition haven't
thought about that. I have to build it.
I have to put it out there to be in
front of everything. And then it's like
what do I have like what do I have to do
today? And so at many different stages
on on base 44's journey, it was I know I
can like improve the product a lot, but
I need to do some more marketing or I
need to like I know this is not the
bottleneck. I know people are like
converting well, they're growing,
retention is looking good. Uh and it's
all about just like increasing the
audience even though I know like I need
like even though I want I really want to
work on the product and so I think
there's like this context switching is
hard. Yeah. And the last piece obviously
is
I was spending a lot of my time on
making sure that my setup
like how I code, how I write content and
so on is optimized and everything is
automated. So I spent a lot of time
thinking and agonizing about how to
structure the code repository. uh for
example so that I can use uh cursor for
back end and base 44 for front end to
write like code really fast. Um,
and this was like really important for
me to keep kind like trying to find out
new ways of like how to automate and
increase the pace of like building solo
because if you're able to correct that,
I feel like smaller teams with a lot of
context nowadays can can move faster.
And the same goes also for marketing is
like and and for for other tools
where you want to automate as much as
you can especially when you're solo
because time is going to be like the the
thing that kills your business if if
you're not managing it right. Okay, let
me follow that thread. That's a really
interesting topic. Uh so what is in your
stack of productivity for yourself and
then just that allowed you to build base
44 just like the tech stack of B 44. So
you said cursor base 44. What else did
you use day-to-day that helped you be
more efficient? So I have severe ADHD
and so it's it it can also be like a
superpower, but then you have to like
first that the first thing you want to
do is like make sure that your your walk
day looks like uh like that that you can
be focused and that you get like a lot
of like deep work. And so I use a
product called rescue time which I
really like but I think there's like a
bunch of other products like shuts down
every access to Twitter and LinkedIn and
so on. This was really hard because I
was starting to like uh do this building
public which turned out to work pretty
well for B4. And so every time you want
to like take a look at your post or see
kind of like how many likes and like
impressions and so on but then like you
can't work on anything else. And so uh I
had this first setup that that really
like allowed me a certain set of
softwares software tools that I can use
to manage kind of like deep work. Um
carousel has been awesome. B 44 not only
did like the work for the front end side
but also a lot of like the business apps
that I used well on top of B 44. So
where I'd manage users and give credits
and and where write content and then
like I had this app where I kind like at
the start of the week would write uh
some like highle content ideas and then
the the base 44 app will take it and
break it down to kind of like something
that sounds more like me for a LinkedIn
post and then I' I'd approve that and
then it would break it down to like a
Twitter post. And so I wrote things that
were were like really customized to my
process and what I wanted to do which
really helped. But I think you can do
that not only with baseboard just you
can vibe code your way into like
productivity tools that really fits what
you want to do and and what kind like
the process for you looks like. And I
had so again for example for my uh uh
social post and so on there's like a
process that I would follow and maybe no
one else would would would follow that
and so vibe code the custom app for that
was really was really helpful. Let me
actually ask about that. That is super
cool. So you built basically internal
tools for yourself using base 44. People
can use other tools potentially. So you
built one that's like help me craft a
tweet. How does that actually look like?
What is the input? That sounds really
interesting.
So the way that I I like to work is like
I would have those uh moments where I
would have inspiration for like a piece
of content, right? So the way I grew
base 44 probably a different topic but
was a lot around building in public and
growing an audience um and speaking to
my audience were which were fellow
builders. So it was really easy. So a
lot of that was like around sharing on
like the base 44 journey. Um,
and then I'll have a process that I
follow is like I'll write down before
that on a piece of paper like some ideas
that I had for like post for throughout
the week because you want to keep
consistency and keep putting like great
things out there. And then my process
before the app was like I'd go to Ched,
I'll write like a very vague kind of
like structure or skeleton of a post and
tell it like hey uh fix my writing
improve my writing a bit and then ch
will spit out something that was like
too far off too much like too salesy not
my tone and then I'll say no keep closer
to the original and we'll fight about
that and then like remove the emojis the
hyphens look weird and so on. So, okay,
I'll have now my my my LinkedIn post and
I'll need to generate an image for that.
So, I'll go to a different tool and then
I'll take this LinkedIn post and now
okay, I need to like put it out also in
my Twitter account. So, okay, let's
break it down to a Twitter thread. now
you need to shorten the like it's you
need to make some adjustments to the
content and so I've taken this entire
process which I think was like what was
working for me um and just voded an app
around it uh to help me speed it up and
then made sure that the LLM inside the
app was using my own tone of voice and
was saving the previous posts to
understand how it looks like what are
the posts that I really like that I've
written beforehand so that in the next
post it will speak just like me. This
might be a good plug for B44. So, like
say someone were to go to bass44.com and
try this out. What would be a prompt
you'd suggest? Like how they get started
building a tool like this? Usually what
I'll do is I'll write down I think LLMs
nowadays do a very good job with like
start vague. It's going to build the
skeleton for what you need and B 44 does
a good job with this like understanding
at least the big pieces. Okay, there's
going to be an LLM writing the content.
There's going to be this and that and so
you don't have to like write the entire
spec. is just like something like hey I
want to build my own content generation
AI powered tool uh here's my process
currently and my process is doing this
and then LinkedIn and then Twitter write
something to support that and then from
there iterate and also something that I
really like with with the entire
category again not only base 44 I feel
like there's tons of tools doing a great
job but something I really like in B 44
is that like you can because it's really
easy to change the software it's like
you get this adaptive software is like
as you improve your processes or maybe
your processes change uh it's like you
adapt it. So like base 44 got acquired
by weeks um two weeks ago and so now the
process of like putting content out
there looks a bit different and so with
just two prompts like you change it to
support your new process which is really
fun. That's a cool phrase adaptive
software. Uh I heard malleable software
is another way to describe this. Let me
I want to talk about growth but a couple
more things real quick. this idea of
bootstrapping. I'm curious. So
essentially, you're competing against
very wellunded companies. Lovable, Bolt,
Replet, Vzero, Versell, uh, Cursor
raised, I don't know, a bazillion
dollars at this point. I know you're not
competing with cursor directly. If you
weren't going to be acquired by Wix, did
you think did you plan on raising money?
Do you think you had a chance staying
bootstrapped competing against the folks
that everyone's, you know, the more
popular products today? base 44 was like
fairly profitable, much more than than
what I thought. So even if like even if
I wasn't getting acquired, I thought
like I can make good money out of it. It
ended up like I remember we I I
had like a very failed product hunt
launch at like mid January and then
started writing some uh like started
building in public at around start of
February and that's where it took off
and then started like I think first
dollar or like the the first 10 or 100
bucks were towards um March
and then in May I already did close to
200k in profit. Um, and so I think
uh I think either way there was like a
room to compete and even though it was
small I was seeing that the the users
that come to me stick like that come to
B 44 stick with B 44 even though they're
very familiar with like the rest of the
competition. The challenge was obviously
making as much noise as the other folks.
Uh so you can see like the other vibe
coding tools doing like a million
dollars hackathons and so on and doing
an awesome job on a growth really. Uh
but I didn't have the resources so I
tried finding ways to fight the fight.
Uh, I think we had a very successful
hackathon for good, which turned out to
be a great growth engine and also did
good in the world, which is like we had
3,000 teams just building some great uh
do good uh apps. But also, to be very
honest, I think part of the reason to
get acquired is because this market has
been moving so fast, faster than
anything I've seen, faster than what I I
thought it's going to move. And at some
point, I figure it's going to be like
you see base 44 grows and you start
thinking, hey, this can really help
people with their lives. Like this, this
is like one of those software categories
that I'm saying that I'm very not
objective, but I feel like can really
move the needle for a lot of people.
I've been seeing people build like
fantastic awesome things. And so I was
like, let's go for the like the big one.
Let's try and actually build some global
scale, maybe lead the category, maybe
win it. I felt like the best chances to
do that is to
uh partner up with Wix. There's like
plenty of reasons to do that. We can we
can touch on that later, but like same
DNA, same customer base, like they know
what they're doing. They're seeing and
and obviously like very good connection
with with the entire management team
over there. And so I feel like the
acquisition,
again being very honest, I felt like
it's going to be a financial success
either way, but the acquisition is like
taking a stance and saying, you know
what, let's let's let's play in the big
league and and and let's uh punch down,
not only punch up uh when when fighting
in this very crowded space. Uh and
that's part of the reason why to get
acquired. That was really insightful. So
part of the part of what I'm hearing is
you could have stayed independent and
made a really good income and built a
really good business at least for a
while. Who knows what would have
happened long term. Uh but it if as a
soloreneur as someone that's never
raised money, you can make significant
income doing something like this in a
crowded space if you have something that
people love that didn't have people up.
So I think that's a really interesting
insight. Like it's okay if there's a
bazillion dollars in funding going to
competitors. There's a lot of there's a
big market here. Yeah, I think it's a
bit different ball game right now. I was
like I was scared many times like I I
thought how how am I gonna go go into
the fight? Those companies are one some
of the fastest growing companies ever.
Again, they're like great teams and very
well funded and a lot of money being
poured into. Um but then like throughout
time I saw that I'm able to keep the
pace if not even have the like a faster
pace and have like a different angle and
and it's not changing over time. So like
nobody's like and so I think it's a
different ball game because even like if
you're very a very small team or even if
you're solo like you're you're literally
managing like teams of AI is like
writing code. I don't think I've written
a single line of like HTML or JavaScript
in the past 3 months but still like that
base 44 front end changes a lot because
uh AI writes that. So yeah, if you if
you have an interesting angle and you're
able to move fast, I feel like money and
funding is not necessarily the
the factor to win a category. And that's
going to be like and and that's going to
change even more drastically in future
as LLM get better. It's like people like
10x engineers would have way more
impact. there going to be 100 X
engineers because they're able to manage
ILM and it's not necessarily the team
size nor the funding uh that that will
be able to win you a category and what
you just shared is amazing that you've
haven't written any you said JavaScript
or HTML in three months which is half
the lifetime of this company which sold
for $80 million and more potentially. It
feels like now the big things you got to
get right is kind of like at the
beginning of figuring out what problems
to solve and being really good at
understanding where the gaps are and
then it's distribution marketing getting
people to be aware that you exist and
give you a shot. Yeah. And even
distribution, I'm still learning the art
that is like it's a even distribution
nowadays, it's very different. And and
also in favor of like the solo, not
necessarily the solo, but like not
necessarily that you're going to pour a
lot of money on paid campaigns. Like B
44 with close to zero marketing budget.
I spent like a uh $2,000 on an
influencer post that didn't really bring
anything and then tried paid for like a
couple of thousands of bucks. um didn't
really work and so everything was like
organically and built in public and so
even distribution is is very different
but yeah if you have an interesting take
on any domain base 44's first user was
one of my best friends like we grew up
together and up to few months ago he was
a restaurant manager um and then he left
and started like a SAS company for
managing invoices for restaurants so
this is a guy that has both distrib
distribution. Obviously, this is very
local like software and company uh but
has distributions like has those
connections but has a very deep domain
knowledge and now that like the
technical he has no like he him and
coding are like very different in their
very different places. Um and so I think
if like domain knowledge become or or
domain expertise and some again
interesting take on a domain or or a
product or a category becomes like a key
thing and then distribution. Yeah,
that's a hard one to get. Uh but also a
world that's changing a lot. Yeah. And I
I love that you did it with no funding.
The other thought here as you're talking
is it feels like you could have kept
doing this and made money and lived a
great life, but there's this question of
how ambitious do you want to be? I've
gone through this myself where I was
like, "Oh, this newsletter is I'm making
a living off this writing one email a
week." Uh, I could do live really well
just doing this, but then I'm like, "Oh,
why not do a podcast? Why not do another
podcast? Why not do some other stuff?"
And the reason I do that is I just like
it's boring to do something the same way
forever. And there's this opportunity
that's out there. I'm like, I should do
that. Uh, and I feel like some people
are on it. I just don't need that. I'm
good. I'm going to live in, I don't
know, Fiji and just code it and make
100, 300, 500k a year from this thing.
But I feel like folks like you, like
there's more ambition and one way is
raise a bunch of money, another sell to
a company that has a platform that you
can build on. Yeah, I emphasize with
this a lot, but the funny thing is that
like B 44 for the first time in my life
was not trying to build the biggest
thing ever. So I remember like when I
started exploring my previous company, I
was so um
like so hung up on like let's raise the
most amount of money in the least amount
of time. I remember that I showed like
remember that I looked kept looking like
hey Exploium raised $100 million before
Snowflake. This is insane. This is
amazing and so on. Um and I did that for
seven years. Um,
and I think B4 is the first time that
like I stopped and said, you know what,
I just want to go back to do what I
really love, which is just building a
product. I don't care if it like if it
wins the category or not. I don't care
if it's going to become really big or
not. Um, I remember when we when when me
and my girlfriend got back from like the
trip to Asia and we were on the plane, I
told her, "Hey, you know what? If if we
get to 1.5 million, I don't remember
where I said exactly this number, like
if we get to 1.5 million in AR uh till
the end of 2025, uh we're going to buy a
nice car. Uh and we got there in like
four weeks. And so it was the first time
like saying, let's not try and build the
biggest thing. Let's just do something I
really like. Um and let's just build a
product that I'm going to enjoy
building. But then at some point it got
to be very very successful. I think it
comes with like once you seeing success
and you see like true positive impact on
people then you're saying okay you know
what let's go for the like let's play in
the big league um and try to scale it
that uh so aligns with my journey. I
similarly I'm like I'm just going to do
a newsletter. Life's going to be great.
I'm not going to build I'm not I I
called it my anti-mpire. I don't want to
build anything big. I'm just going to
keep it chill project chill project
avoid getting a real job. That's what I
called it. And and I think that is a
really big insight. Some of the best
stuff comes from not putting a bunch of
pressure on yourself, trying to build
something huge uh and just following a
poll, following your interests,
following uh just that insight you have
and ends up being some of the best ideas
come out of that and the biggest ideas.
I love it. I agree with that. Yeah. This
episode is brought to you by Content
Square, the analytics platform that
helps companies build better digital
experiences. Ever wonder why customers
drop off before converting? Or why some
pages perform better than others?
Content Square takes the guesswork out
of digital experiences, giving you
real-time insights into how users
interact with your site or app. With AI
powered analytics, automatic frustration
detection, and clear visualizations,
you'll know exactly what's working and
what's holding your customers back.
Whether you're optimizing an e-commerce
checkout, refining a B2B lead flow, or
improving a mobile app experience,
Content Square pinpoints exactly what
needs fixing and why, Content Square
powers better customer journeys across
1.3 million websites and apps. Discover
the insights you've been missing at
contentsquare.com/lenny.
Let's talk about growth. So, here's what
I want to do. I want to talk through
just how you got the first users of B44.
So, I'm thinking maybe how'd you get
like the first 10 users? How'd you get
the first hundred users? How'd you get
the first thousand users? What are the
the levers used there? What are the
tactics? So, let's start with 10. How'd
you get your first 10 users? Just
begging people close to me that I feel
like that they have uh that I have
really good connections with uh to use
it. I feel like there's no other way.
And maybe there are other ways but um
again I was very new to like uh B2C like
to consumerish type of product and so I
grabbed well I started with even three
users like really close friends.
Two of them back at the time I caught
them in like a part of their life where
they were unemployed. So I was like hey
why don't you try build a SAS business
or something like that.
And so three really close friends um
where somehow I got them to sit down
with me every other day around the table
and they would use the the tool. They
will try to build something. It will
break. I'll take a look. I'll take a
look at the logs. I'll go back to my
computer, try to change it, push into
production and then just build it for
them. I feel like plenty of people are
lucky to find maybe a method that
consistently works for your like 10,
100, a thousand uh users and then from
there. But I try to look at it as like
milestones. And so first I was like I'm
not going to try and scale anything
before I know that uh users enjoy it and
and the best metric to to seeing them
enjoying it or or at least making value
out of it even if they're not enjoying
because there plenty of bugs and
slowness and so on is that they're
starting to share it with with someone.
So I haven't invested anything in
marketing before. I felt like okay for
the first three or five or 10 friends at
some point they started sharing it with
their friends like you'd see okay
there's like one new users today and
then two new users today and so on. So
once it started happening even on very
low percentages because uh base 44
turned out later in its journey to be
very viral but back then it was like an
okay product. People loved it and and
all liked it and started sharing it with
it. And so once I started seeing that
this works uh and we got to like 10
users where all my friends and then and
then the 11th user or something like
that started seeing people that don't
really know me. That's why I knew okay
now it's time to invest in marketing or
try to launch this thing or try to like
get more people to use it because if you
try to do it beforehand I feel like
you're going to waste a lot of time and
resources on just like having a very
revolving door like you get users in and
users out. you will not be able to to
and unless you have like a lot of money
to invest in paid so that like it makes
sense then then it's very hard. I knew
that I'm not going to do that. It's like
a product that I'm building. I wanted to
be profitable from the get-go and not
feeling bad for investing too much money
into your page and so on. And so I knew
that it has to be viral. At some point I
started starting to look like it's
viral. Then I did a very failed very bad
uh product hunt launch. Uh but also now
looking back and saying this is
completely fine. I feel like people some
sometimes treat their launches like
product launches as like make it or
break it for the company. This wasn't
the case for me. I was like this is a
tool for me to get to my next 30 users,
my next 50 users. And that's exactly
what happened. And so first product hunt
launch we got like 50 I got like 15 new
users. By the way, the second one broke
product hunt. They thought there like
plenty of bots. We won the first product
of the day and the first product of the
month of the week, but it's a different
story. Um, and so we got like 50 users
and we got the first user to pay. This
was an insane an insane feeling because
I'm like an entrepreneur coming for like
the enterprise space. I was thinking
that this is insane. Why would anyone
pay for my product without meeting me,
without like looking me dead in the eyes
or trying to get a discount and so on.
Obviously, this user turned in like a
few hours. The product wasn't good back
then. Um,
but
from there I started seeing some very
slow growth. So, I got my first 50 and
then 20 left and then the other 30
started sharing it with like other users
that were really good. And then I tried
a bunch of marketing things. Didn't
work. Uh, influencer post or paid or
something like that. And then one of my
friends uh was also a founder in a
different different space told me, hey,
you know what? I think it's really cool
that you're building it on your own and
that you're like you're trying to like
take a very different approach than than
the usual VC funded way. Why don't you
share like content about that? Like the
end of the day, it's like you're going
to have this the same like your audience
are builders. they're trying to build
their own products or or maybe even
businesses and it will likely resonate
with them. And so I started sharing the
journey on uh LinkedIn and I remember
like seeing posts like okay there's this
nice concept of building public and
people get really interested and I think
here in base 44 I had like this really
nice
uh synergy between the building public
and also my audience was like builders
right if I was like building I don't
know a product to attorneys and probably
this would wouldn't have made a lot of
sense once I started like sharing uh
what I'm building in public and getting
more users and improving their product
tremendously. I was so lucky like the
the community around B 44 is is nothing
like I've ever seen. It's like so
supportive. There's so much feedback and
so from the the loop of like improving
the product. This is exactly like how
how people say it should feel like is
like people asking for features before
you can actually build them. They're
getting so excited about your product.
the writing the nicest things people
have tried like started writing like hey
you changed my life I wanted to build I
had that like those ideas throughout my
life I didn't have a like an an ability
to do that or resources or money to pay
for developers and then the other thing
that I did it worked really well is I've
noticed that people really like sharing
what they're building uh on top of base
44 like they would write posts I
remember at some point a friend of mine
reached out and he was like, uh, dude,
how much are you paying those people to
to like write posts about space 45? I
was like, I'm not paying anyone,
honestly. And so what I did is I
actually I I did this program inside B
44, saying, hey, if you share just about
the process of building the app or the
app itself, it doesn't even have to be
about B 44. If you share it in social,
you'll get extra credits to build. And
so those two um, like building public
and giving up credits worked extremely
well. Um, and that's how we got golf
going. Okay, let's pause there. That was
awesome. Uh, how many users do you have
at this point of the journey roughly? I
think there was like two weeks between,
no, a week between having like being on
a pace of like 20 users a day to seeing
uh 4,000 users come into your product
like new users a day. Um, break the
product like it was hard scaling it.
Also, there's like some things I needed
to learn uh while moving. It's like,
okay, I wasn't a DevOps engineer. I
don't know how to scale databases. I
didn't know that a virtual CPU would
really come back at me when when trying
to scale and so on. Um, and again,
trying to be profitable and so you you
try to use every free tier that you can,
but then once you start scaling, it's
really bad. So yeah, I think once I
started sharing uh in public, it grew to
a few thousands, okay, a day and then
for the credit thing like did the rest.
Okay, so this is kind of like the whole
journey. I know there's a few other
elements I want to touch on, but let me
point out a few things that stood out to
me that I think might be helpful to
folks. The first is right at the
beginning that coming back to a lesson
you shared at the beginning, which is
build for specific people. So, initially
it was built for yourself, built for
your girlfriend, built for the scouts
program, and then it was built for these
like three friends just building it,
sitting with them, uh, building the
things they need to use it, which is
really interesting because a lot of
times the advice you get is look for
look for pull, look for people with
problems to solve. Uh, like you almost
went the opposite like you're like, use
my product. I need you as a favor. Use
my product and help me make it better.
Absolutely. also like I don't know there
I think maybe paradigms are changing but
there are some things that I don't
believe in is like MVPs first and
foremost is like if you're building
something that people will not be able
to use or is not good enough especially
these days where it's so much easier to
build software. So the attention span
for people to actually try out new
software products is is is getting
shorter and shorter. Yeah, pick a bunch
of people that, I don't know, owe you
something or or have any reason to use
your product when when it's bad. Build
for them. Be there physically. I
remember that even when we passed uh 20k
users, 50k users, and 100k users, it was
still very tough to get the right
feedback. So, I would bring like 20 30
people to like a room together like
almost like a focus group or a small
hackathon. I'll do that every other week
um just to get feedback and it was so
much easier than any other thing and it
was the same thing that I tried
developing when we were just like three
users and five users and so yeah build
it for them they can come from different
backgrounds again something else that I
don't really empathize with or or agree
with is like you have to have like a
certain ICP it's not it's not
necessarily about like the profile of a
person more of like what they're trying
to do is like way more important so you
can have different types of people, but
they're all trying to do the same thing,
right? They're trying to build a tool. I
think some of this people should
remember the tool you're building is a
specific kind of tool that helps you
build things. And so these lessons don't
necessarily apply. Uh in a lot of cases,
you want to be really specific with ICP
because there's like one thing you
accomplish with this thing versus this
very horizontal product. I agree. But I
think that's still very good to know
because maybe for your product, you hear
all this advice, you need a very narrow
focus. You got to have a very specific
role and company size and all these
things. you're like, "Okay, maybe not.
Maybe if your tool is something that a
lot of people can use for a lot of
different reasons. Don't worry about
that too much." Okay, so step one,
shared it with friends, a few friends,
like forced them to use it. Please use
this. I'm going to watch you. Your point
about being there physically, I think,
is really interesting. Like don't just
send it to them over email and and ask
them how it went. It's like sit next to
them and watch them use it and then keep
making it better. Then you tried this
product launch. Another great lesson.
You may fail on Product Hunt. That's
okay. You still gain like you don't It
sounds like you tripled your quadrupled
your user base from 10 to 30ish in a
failed product launch product hunt
launch. Uh you also said you've tried
paid which didn't work. You tried
influencer marketing didn't work. So
basically all the paid stuff didn't work
but that's great great lesson. I think
people generally don't want to be doing
that kind of stuff. The point you made
about starting to share it in public I
think is really interesting. A lot of
people post stuff on LinkedIn and
everyone like it's cringey. There's a
lot of people building in public. Who
cares? What are you building? I don't
know. I don't care about what you're
building. What is it you think stood out
about the way you approached it that is
it this tool you built that tell you how
to post really viral stuff? Uh what do
you think you did that allowed that made
people care? Is it like the small
community you're already a part of in
Israel and the tech scene? Like is that
a big part of why you think it worked?
Is there anything else that might be
helpful to folks that are thinking about
building in public and being successful
there? So, first a disclaimer. I feel
like I had some very small not audience
but like I had plenty of like LinkedIn
connections before and so everything
started from LinkedIn right till this
day right. Yeah. So now that the
acquisition story is is getting crazy
all over the world. So getting a lot of
followers from a bunch of like different
different uh uh social media platforms
but started with LinkedIn. think the
fact that I was like the CEO of this
company um previously like had some
people around me in my connections. So
again, you have to have like if you're
writing to like something that I told a
friend a few weeks ago, building public
is great, right? But but and and other
other like other channels can really
work, but at some point you have to like
take a bet on one channel that you see
it's working. So, like if you're writing
posts week over week and like you get
five likes, it's likely not going to
change drastically. Um, so and again, I
tried a bunch of things. Uh, influencer
didn't work. Okay, just put it aside for
a second. Let's let's see if I can find
a channel that works. So yeah, I in for
the building public, I was trying to be
as honest as I could and and just write
the good, the bad. And I think also the
fact that like I wasn't a venture like I
wasn't a a VC funded company. I didn't
try looking the best or show hey look at
my amazing metrics or like make
everything looks like really pink and
really great and I'm the fastest going
whatever bootstrapped company in the
world. I think just writing really about
the good, the bad, and the ugly and just
being very realistic and sharing the
learnings along the way. Again, that
this is specifically for my audience,
right? So my audience were builders and
so I'm not sure that it it it works to
any other product category. But yeah,
just being very realistic and doing post
from the deepest like technical tax tech
and how I optimize LLM to just sharing
some uh some feelings or growth. People
like to see numbers. People like to see
charts. And also even there even in the
building public like I would ask my
friends beforehand that I knew that they
were the the target like what do you
think of this post? Is it interesting?
Is it not? Like do you get do you see
value out of that? And it's like almost
like a product that you're releasing out
there. It's the same thing. Okay. This
is really interesting. So being being
honest really effective feels like
there's like this underdog element of
being a solo founder not VC funded adds
to it. also just sharing really
interesting learnings, things you've
learned yourself that I'm innately
people find interesting because you
didn't know this stuff. Uh, and also
just like fun stats and charts and
things like that. Building a tool on
base 44 that can help you make these
tweets better. Also, there I think it's
important to note you had a network
ahead of this like you had people, you
had followers, you had connections, it
wasn't like starting from zero. What's
like a rough sense of just like I don't
know how large your network was. What's
like a way to think about that so folks
are like, "Oh, wow. I'm nowhere near
that." I don't think it was very big.
Um, I think it was like maybe a few
thousand connections. Nowadays, it's few
tens of thousands, but like you start
seeing some engagement and and once you
do that, especially when like saying,
"Okay, this is the channel that I'm
going to put all like on my way to."
Okay, that's a really important point,
too. It wasn't like put cross to Twitter
and Instagram, all these things. It's
pick one and just nail that. Yeah. Till
this day, I think that like posting for
me posting on Twitter was was a waste of
time. I at some point like okay, I saw
LinkedIn succeed and I was like, okay,
let's do the same thing on Twitter. Now
I have like a better following on
Twitter, but yeah, like it was it didn't
really work. So I was spending a lot of
time where like from LinkedIn I saw like
the the highest ROI and it could be very
different for different founders, for
different products. It could be Reddit.
It could be like uh opening opening up a
substack. Like it could be very
different things for me. That's what
worked. And like once you see something
work, just double triple down on that.
Keep on like don't try to spray and
play. It doesn't work at this stage. At
least for me. That is really great
advice. It aligns with what I often see
with traditional growth engines. You
there's like SEO, there's pay, there's
sales, there's verity, word of mouth.
And usually a company grows mostly
through one. And yeah, LinkedIn
interestingly was your vector of growth.
Also, just this incentives piece is
really interesting, a really cool
tactic. So, the tactic here is
incentivizing people to share what they
built on base 44 and they get credit to
build more. I've never heard of that
before. H how do you actually do that?
Do they send screenshots or something?
How do they get credit? They they
literally like early on they sent me
emails and I would tag them again with a
with an app in an LLM. Like there's
there support is a whole different topic
that we can speak about for hours. Like
how do you run support when you're solo
which is a huge topic but like they
would send um I would say hey write a
post um paste the link back send me an
email with like the link and and like
and I'll give you credits. And so at
some point I automated that because I
couldn't really manage like the the
whole thing. Uh but yeah because you
couldn't really like connect to like the
the social APIs and so it was hard. So,
it's like just send me the post. I I
know exactly what you mean with the
support challenges of being a solo
person with a newsletter of a million
people. I get endless little things just
come up. I I am really curious to hear
how you solved it. Let's not get into
it. In terms of being solo, actually, I
haven't asked this yet. How long were
you actually solo? When did you actually
hire your first first second person into
the journey of the six months? So, the
first person started two months ago. So,
a month and a half before the
acquisition. So, I was running mostly
solo. I think but like when when he
started I already knew that that it's
headed there to acquisition. Um yeah and
also at some point like once I I like I
like I saw that the chances chances of
this happening are grow. So yeah, I
hired like the best people I know cuz I
know that like I have now this um few
years if not more that like I want to
build an awesome like I have to build
this to be really big and I need the
right people around me and it's not
anymore about like let's try and be as
profitable and as fun as possible like
let's literally take a bigger bet. Um
that's where I started like bringing in
people that I knew um the best people
that I knew to kind of like help me
build that also like the the way the
deal is structured. Not that I can share
a lot of details around this like okay
there's like the the 80 mil that got
published that's the initial payment and
then there's this airote piece which is
really interesting because I think they
we structured the deal in a really
win-win situation. Um but then a lot of
my compensation and a lot of like the
upside is actually based on that like
other than the 80 mil and so I have both
the financial interest also the personal
interest and like building English to be
as big as possible. So in the month
before the acquisition uh I had the team
starting to scale but also basically for
like became more profitable that I could
afford myself to bring in more people.
The first hire was that an engineer
would what did they do? actually a
product person. Uh like a product
manager. Yeah. Well, it's it's someone
was I I've been working with a lot and
he's like a jack of all trades. So, he
can go into like LLM logs and look at
like mistakes and fix the pawns. He can
write Python scripts to analyze things
that we do. Uh he can start implementing
analytics into the product. So, like a
very technical
uh
product person that could wear many
hats. That's what you want when you were
starting out like at some point I was
like his name is Yav. Um some point I
was telling her hey Yav uh you take golf
now and I was like I haven't done golf
anywhere right no you take now like try
and and let's let's try new challenge
let's try those kind of things. So you
want to bring in someone that at least
the field style that can do many
different things. Okay that's really
interesting. Let's finish talking about
growth and let me share stuff you've
shared already about what worked and
then there's a few more things I read
that you did that I'm curious how big of
a deal they were. So first you just
grabbed a bunch of friends used this
product used that to learn what to build
you tried product hunt sort of effective
early stages it was ended up being
really effective then you had another
launch that was like you said broke the
product hunt algorithm how many users
that drive that was that like a huge
inflection that second product hunt
launch the thing is like things happen
so fast that I didn't really implement
any like data
like stuff like that so I don't really
know how many how many years it bought
but I remember I remember first like the
the community around base 44 again is
like one of the most incredible
communities that I've seen is a very
strong one and like they're all in like
the writing so that they all were very
excited about the product hunt launch
and I was like let's skyrocket uh base
44 and then I wake up and I see the
weirdest things like base 44 is not even
in the top 10
um and I was like I know for a fact
there's like a thousand people already
voted by the time it was noon uh and
noon in Israel right very early on it's
like I see people right I see more posts
on LinkedIn saying people should vote to
base 44 and I actually see up votes um
and so till this day I don't really know
what happened so I one of the community
reached out to the support team uh for
product hunt uh and saying you guys
should like check out your algorithm
because something is not right like just
even look at LinkedIn's like search for
base 44 product hunt like you'll see
this many posts and they're like, "You
know what? You're right. We fixed it."
And then we jumped to like the first
place. We were like 500 up votes. Uh the
delta was 500 uploads from the second
place. Oh my god. I've never seen that.
Yeah. So, it was it was fun also seeing
kind of like the the community rally uh
for for this. Speaking of community, did
was that all in WhatsApp or did you
manage this community? WhatsApp is is a
surprisingly really good tool to get
feedback from the community. Obviously,
like it's not a great tool for the like
the community is growing so fast. So, it
blew past like a,000 or 2,000 or 5,000.
I don't even remember what's the limit
on WhatsApp. Uh, but till this day like
the WhatsApp community, uh, which was
like very early on, is such a great
place to get feedback. Um, it's also
even, oddly enough, it was when when it
first started out, it was my best place
to find out if the product is up, if
there's like slowness, if there's like
bugs, cuz people write like really fast
and I can see that. Um,
but obviously at some point we turn to
like more scalable solutions like
Discord, Reddit. Um,
yeah, those those things. Um, and then
just keep on sending product updates via
email. Okay. There's another couple
levers I've read about and then I'm
going to move on to a different topic.
One is this hackathon you mentioned that
helped you grow and and be become more
aware. Uh, the other is you did a bunch
of partnerships which is really rare for
a company of your size. So, just talk
about those and and what that did to the
business. At one point, one of the
things I really liked about building
base 44 is that I saw people doing like
building apps that were really like
incredibly positive and like doing
really good in the world. And so and
then it's I think something really
interesting right now in vibe coding in
general is like once you actually scale
software, you can also scale the impact
the software does. So you can have like
nonprofits build themselves tools. You
can have people that uh build apps for
education and neglected domains. They
didn't really have budget because there
was like no business out idle and once
you open this up and make it super cheap
to create software then it's becoming
and so I wanted and this was like early
on like we were at the 5,000ish
10,000ish users. Um, and so I said,
"Okay, you know what? Let's do a
hackathon uh where we open up for
everybody to build like apps that do
good in the world." Um, if I had no
budget back then, so I was like, "Okay,
this is going to be a 5k hackathon."
Like the price is going to be 5k and it
was your own money you were going to
give away. Yeah, it was like the profits
that that something base 44 did at the
same at that time. And then a lot of
people started registering and and a lot
of teams. Uh it ended up being 3,000
teams. Uh so like really big I think
like the largest I think it's the
largest for good hackathon uh so far.
and then started getting um sponsor
requests because it went all over social
and all of a sudden I found myself with
a very like nice back then like smaller
business partnering up with Amazon, with
Google, with MongoDB, with Deoid, like
with really great companies
uh that that one after another stood
behind this um hackathon which was so so
fun. like that. Those are awesome teams
like the ones that we partner up with.
They open up their offices across the
globe to have like teams uh be there and
and the prices went obviously very high.
Um I think this is this will likely be
one of the the top moments in my career.
Uh was very very empowering very like
people built a lot of like interesting
things. I remember this person building
a tool for her grandma was an an
Alzheimer um like she has Alzheimer's
and and like building an a an app which
is essentially a game to help the
grandmother to memorize family members
with like photos and names and like so
many interesting and great and impactful
applications. I love that there's
benefits to the hackathon route which
other vibe coding tools are taking uh
not just growth but also just good
feelings and just building community and
seeing what people are doing like
meeting people excited about what you're
building so so many side benefits. Okay,
before we move on from growth, is there
anything else that's worth mentioning
that worked really well or just like
they think that people think will work
and just didn't work for you that you
didn't already mention? The last piece,
but people talk about that a lot is that
um velocity eventually is a growth
engine. So like part of like building in
public is you want to put content out
there that people really like to see.
And so we joked about it, but it's
really true. Like people like to see
charts and they like to see numbers and
it gets them attached to like this
project if they're saying, "Oh, I wonder
what's going to be profit next week or I
wonder like how much money is it losing
and how can you optimize?" and like that
they get attached to that. Um, and I
think also velocity is to some degree
the same thing because if your product
evolves really fast and you're putting
features out there like every other day,
people get attached to that and and
people like like it's I remember I
remember people commenting on my post
saying you know what like it's moving so
fast I have to try it now. Um and so
this is part of it like velocity solves
so for so many things like most of my
thoughts uh when and still are when
running base 44 is like how do we
increase velocity? How do we increase
velocity? It's going to solve every
product problem you have or most of
them. It's going to solve some of your
marketing challenges if you're smart
about it and and you're putting the
content out there and you you're making
everything like a mini launch. Uh so I
feel like that was also a great uh
growth tool. That is a really good
point. Uh clearly everyone in the space
is understands this as well. I want to
talk about the acquisition piece, but a
couple quick questions that have been on
my mind. One is just what is the tech
stack that you built on? Because I think
a lot of founders are like, "What the
hell do I build on? How do I what will
help me move fast?" So get as geeky as
you want, just like what are the tools
and infrastructure used to build base
44? Render.com. Oh my god, this is I
like the honestly they're not paying me
anything. I wish I would have invested
or anything. I don't think I ever spoke
to someone senior there. Um, holy like
this is this was so much fun to work
with and still is like uh I remember I
mean my previous company we had like
large teams of devops building processes
for us to push to production. So
render.com is like um how does it call
like this? Um it's a cloud
like it's like a very like built on top
of AWS. you have a bunch of uh easy easy
to manage processes
um and and easy to like start up web
apps and and scale them and so on. Um
and it's just render. It's not like a
fancy version of render. It's the word
render.com. Oh yeah, I just looked that
up. Okay, cool. Yeah. So this is like
everything that has to do with
infrastructure. I manage the both the
website, the platform and applications
itself because base for base for4 is
like a complex ecosystem. You have that
the user applications that have to be
isolated and separated from the platform
that has to be isolated and separated
from the websites like a whole a whole
thing. Um,
MongoDB is really good when you're vibe
coding, especially when you're building
a vibe coding platform because uh
schemas change a lot and it's not
necessarily like users LLMs don't always
understand what the user is trying to
send so they keep changing the data
schema. Um and I feel like this this has
been a right choice obviously Kelser but
again I was spending 20 30% of my time
just optimizing
for making the whole repository
uh LLM suitable. So by the way this
those are concept that I also
implemented in in base 44 but one thing
that I kept doing is I tried making the
LLM write as least code as possible like
when you're trying to implement a
feature that that try to get to a place
where it can implement the feature
entirely without you writing code but
that the LLM would write le codes as
least codes are possible because then
when the LM try to like when the AI
tries to like implement the entire
feature from scratch there are more
places where it can make mistakes or get
confused. There are more things that it
needs to save in the context when you
ask it for a follow-up prompt or
something like that. And so I built a
very high level very opinionated
infrastructure like code infrastructure,
right? It takes care of like the entire
thing. When you build a new feature, it
takes care of like the entire like the
the CRUD, the authentication, the
database, like everything that has to do
with that. So that when you ask the LLM
to implement a new thing, it writes very
little code. And by the way, this is
also true for B 44 is like provide the
LLM with a really good infrastructure
and SDK and have the LM like the LM
still has the flexibility to write the
entire feature because it's code, but
make it so that uh that it doesn't need
to to spit out too many tokens and
obviously everything that has to do with
rule set. There's one uh uh
controversial take uh for me working
with LLMs is uh don't use TypeScript,
use plain JavaScript, use JS6. Uh it's
easier for models to write code this
way. So the front end for base 44 for
the platform I mean um is built in JS6
not TypeScript and I feel like this has
been working well. part of the reason
why I haven't written a single line of
HTML or or JavaScript in the past like
Jesse does this really well. Um, and
another thing that works really well
working with AI is a lot like try to
push as much as possible in the same
repository
instead of like separating the front end
and the back end. It's easier to give
like the contest context to the to the
AI of like both what's in the back end,
what's in the front end.
Um,
besides that, so my stack is like the
back end is in Python.
I feel like people can be very
judgmental about that
in terms of performance. I haven't
gotten into performance issues and
there's like a lot of a lot of traffic
to base 44 and every now and then people
try to do B 44 and still the server
holds. So I feel like if you're building
it the right way, uh, Python is just a
very great language to do that. And
another maybe interesting take is, uh,
because many of the the
the new apps and products are bu are
being built to some degree around LLMs.
So one of the things that I use is
for the LLM that actually writes code in
B 44, I use I use a mix of different
models for different tasks. So CloudFo
for example does a really nice job with
first the initial prompt like writing
the app from scratch then everything
that has to do with UI is just fantastic
like design is great but then for
example Gemini is really good when when
you get to a very complex uh or like
very complex problem or you need to
figure out an algorithm or cloud for got
stuck in some bug loop which happens a
lot when you v code. Um, and so I have
this pipeline that tries to figure out
the user prompt and then um route it to
the right LLM. Uh, which I feel like has
been working pretty well. Wow, that was
uh extremely interesting. Uh, in this
routing does this is this what you do
within cursor or you do this within base
44 based on what the person's working
on? Base 44. Yeah, I don't think has
this. I wish they I think there's like
maybe an an an auto option for like but
in base 44 is like when users ask that's
awesome I first try to analyze what
they're asking and then figure out
what's the right to use. That is so
cool. So it's just claude and gemini
those are the two they use for base 44.
Yeah. Well, all of those tools basically
for Ker all the vibe coding tools I use
the same uh paradigm or I don't know if
you call it or method which is like you
have the heavy guns which is usually
either cloud for or gemini and then
cloud for and gemini usually um create
the highle
uh solution or high level kind like what
changes do you want to make to the file
so not writing all of the file from
scratch every time carousel does that
basically like and so writing like the
only the chunk of code that needs to be
implemented in high level then you you
get like smaller faster models like
flesh or faux mini from openai to
implement to kind like uh to patch the
code inside the this file. Okay, one
very tactical question and a completely
different direction uh product question
activation getting people to an aha
moment feels like something that uh is
core to retention something that comes
up a lot on this podcast. Is there
anything you learned about getting that
right? Anything you did that was really
successful in getting people to see the
value of base 44 really quickly and and
in that start sharing it, using it?
Here's one interesting thing that that I
learned that I think uh was
counterintuitive to me because you
always like you always want to build the
best product out there for your users.
Uh but sometimes it contradicts the aha
moment or how fast can you get users to
do that?
first when when I like when a few months
ago or more than that when B 44 started
before actually implementing your app.
So you'd say something like, "Hey,
create a a task management app." And
before implementing that, because a lot
of times you get this uh not super clear
request from the user, I'd show the user
like the LM would first before even
writing code, it would first generate uh
user flows like almost like a PRD or
like but something that's more
digestible to folks who have like are
not coming from from the space. Uh so it
will generate user flows. it will show
it to you like hey you want to create a
a task and then you could you could say
yeah yeah so maybe I want to add some
files and stuff like that so it will
show you what it's going to generate to
make sure that it understands you and
then you click okay and then it will
generate the app this was actually
something I ditched because too many
users um even though it was good for
them and it was the right product
decision to do that because you'll
you'll create like better apps doing
this Okay. But the conversions to like
get to the aha moment uh were not super
high and also like not super like I
think one of the the key to the aha
moment in the vibe coding world or at
least in base 44 is like holy [__] like
it actually understood me and you see
the app and if you have like a stage in
the middle it makes a surprise like
slightly less surprising. So I think I
ditched that and that was a a nice
lesson that that I don't know actually
how to define the right way but it's
like get your users as fast as possible
to the H movement. Sometimes there's a
price to that. make sure it's not too
big. But sometimes there applies to that
because at least when you're building
B2C and it's all new to me because I'm
not coming from the space, but at least
when you're building B2C, like the
attention span is so low really. Uh so
you want to get there in like a minute
or two or three. Uh and then from there,
okay, later on ramp up the features that
you want to you want to actually put
there so that it can be like the right
product for for your users. That was an
awesome insight. Thank you for sharing
that. That's actually something that I
think will help a lot of people. Okay,
final topic. I want to talk about the
acquisition process. Uh founders often
look at this as like the dream. Oh my
god, I sold my company millions of
dollars, but I know it's always
stressful and hectic and wild and you
know, the work only begins. You know,
you know, you're not like I'm off. You
have to keep building this thing. So,
first of all, just had the acquisition
conversation start. Weeks reached out. I
think back then there's like a lot of
folks from the community.
um were posting saying, "Hey, we should
definitely buy base 44 before it gets
too big or something like that." Um even
though like we're not playing or
competing in the same category, but it
was clearly it's going to be Why were
they recommending Wix? What was just the
connection there? First, because of the
Israeli like uh the Israeli ecosystem.
Got it. But also folks were building
websites with base 44 and so it's kind
of like the same the same. Obviously Wix
is yeah obviously Wix is an incredible
product um for building websites but a
different approach from from LMS now
it's now definitely getting there and so
I got there the management team like
Wix's management team is so friendly
um and and such great guys and I
remember sitting there and the first I
think the first sentence that I was
first thing that Abishai the CEO told me
is like hey everybody's been saying that
we should buy you maybe at least it
worth the talk and we're here to help.
Um,
and I think early on we've explored like
at least in my mind like yeah, it seems
like those are that's that's a great
team to work with. They're definitely in
the same space. There's a lot I can
benefit from partnering up together. So,
it wasn't clearly an acquisition
um like on the acquisition path. And
Vishai, the CEO, is like a very
seasoned, very experienced, and helped a
lot of entrepreneurs in the B2C space
and specifically in Israel to to kind of
go and succeed. And so I remember um
meeting him for a few nights of like
just uh eating some steaks and just
chatting about how to go base 44 and
just literally just getting there to get
an advice. Um, and so at some point we
saw first that we have great chemistry
both with him and and with the rest of
the team, which I think is really really
crucial, especially if they're buying a
solo like this is a very unique case,
but especially if they're buying like a
small team. Um, I think it's crucial for
the buyer to make sure or to feel like
they're going to have really good
connection and chemistry with the
founders with the key people because
eventually it's like I remember like the
key one of the key reasons where we were
like debating together whether whether I
should I should join Wix or not is like
one of the key things that we've put on
the table is oh yeah and it's going to
be a lot of fun working together. Um,
and I think also being a person that's
going to be fun to work with is a key,
especially if you're if you're not like
a 500 people uh company that someone's
buying. If you're like a big company and
doesn't really matter like you're buying
the operations, you're buying the
product. If you're a small company,
they're just starting out and getting
some great momentum, you have to be a
person that people would love to like
want to work with for the next few
years. And so this was critical. Uh um I
think the best like the best place uh
and this is not easy to get to to this
position but the best position to
negotiate such a deal or or even to get
there is to be also very fine with the
other path of not getting acquired. In
some ways, it's like it's weird, but
it's like uh
it's like in dating when you when you're
in the first couple of dates, you don't
want to show too much interest because
then it's uh I think also I was in a
position that I was saying, hey, if it
works out, it's going to be amazing and
if not, it's going to be amazing. It's
going to be either either way fun or
obviously I wanted it to work out. Yeah.
And the last thing I think is um
I don't know if it's suitable for
everyone, but I'm very happy with the
structure of the deal with the air piece
because I feel like it's still
I still show up every day to work and
and it's been only two weeks, but feel
like it's going to be like that for
years. And like
I have a personal investment in the
business and its success. So, it's
really I feel like it's better than just
selling the business and uh just
spending the the the next few years and
wanting to disappear. I I love that part
of the deal. Uh you could be a
billionaire if it does well enough. I I
don't know the deals, but in theory. Um
let me ask so I know a part of the story
also is that when you were signing the
deal, the uh the war with Iran basically
broke out. Tell that story. So, I was
trying to not uh I wasn't nervous
throughout the process, but this like
this is like a huge deal for me, right?
It's going to change my life. Probably
will change my kids life. Um and when we
kicked off the process, uh we wanted it
to be fast. Elso, it's like it's not
like B4 was like a very old company with
like a lot of baggage. It's like there's
no legal, there's no like it was very
easy. The due diligence process was very
fast. And I remember I us saying to the
to the lawyers and to our great kind
like two films that we work with, uh,
it's like until until Thursday night,
that's it. We're signing Thursday night.
No matter what we do, let's do it. Like,
let's wrap it up and make sure that
we're aligning to sign Thursday night.
And we get till Thursday night. It's
2:00 a.m. We stopped fighting over like
small details. Um and the lawyers have
agreed to everything and I was like okay
just send it out for signatures. We said
Thursday night and then lawyers were
saying uh yeah we agreed on everything
but we need still need to kind like
change the wording and so on and we're
very tires like we're not going to do it
the right way. Let's wake up tomorrow
morning and do that. And I remember as
like I remember going to sleep and then
4:00 a.m. waking up like this
announcement like hey a war broke out
between and I was like again this is so
classic. I'm sure that the deal will
like I'm not like I wasn't sure like I
was I was like holy I can't believe this
is happening. It's such it's such an
insane turn of events but everything
went fine from there. We woke up the
next morning um and signed the papers.
Um yeah, it was as I said before, it was
definitely the least Boeing month that I
had in my life. I was just thinking back
to exactly that phrase that you shared.
Oh man, there's just so many parts of
the story that are so interesting. It's
a her a hero's journey story in so many
ways. Mayor, is there is there anything
else that you want to leave listeners
with? anything that we didn't touch on
um maybe just last piece of negative
advice for founders that are trying to
be on this start on this journey are on
this journey they think might be helpful
to them. So, first before getting to the
to the negative advice, if there's like
the only thing that I would say really,
if there's anyone from the base 44s
community that's actually listening to
this, I am so grateful like this
community has been so
supportive. Um, and many times I'm
saying, okay, maybe I did this right and
that right, but I I don't it's hard for
me to think about what I did uh so many
things right to get like this community
behind the product. And so I'm go so
grateful for the community. So if
everyone's listening uh really I'm I'm
hoping to serve everyone better. Um what
not to do. Um yeah, there's there's
plenty. Don't
just make sure that at least 50% of your
time you work on some on the the parts
of you that you really like and that
you're really good at. You know, there's
like this plenty of ways of saying that
and different diagrams that they show
you is like what you're good at, what
what you want to do, uh what's fun for
you, what's energizing, what's not. I
think 50% of it should be in like this
sweet spot of you're doing the thing
that you're genius at, like your genius
zone or whatever they call it. Uh and
they're so fun because that's what keeps
you up like showing up every day. And
it's unbelievably
different um than than being a very
talented person, a very skilled person,
but doing things that you either don't
like or and it's fine like everybody
does things that they don't like. And in
every job there's like those places, but
keep yourself in the zone of of genius.
Um
I think that's really crucial. Um, and I
feel like in the last few months, I've
also met plenty of like uh really great
and friendly CEOs uh even from the
Israeli ecosystem like for for public
companies, right? weeks and minded.com
and it and so on and they're all like
obviously they have to do a lot of
different things and being CEOs of
public companies like uh you have to
like manage a lot of things a lot of
logistics and I don't know bureaucracy
but they all have
not tact like major or to some degree
major part of their job is doing
something that they really like and
they're really good at like whether it's
like product design uh whether it's like
um building a marketing machine or
something like that. I think that's
critical.
Yeah, that's the biggest thing. Um and
also it's like and you probably hear
this not nowadays on every podcast, but
it's the best time to build. Um and it
can be really life-changing just
starting out something that you really
like where I feel like we're at the age
at the start of an age is going to be
bigger than the the revolution that the
internet did. Obviously, I think now
it's becoming clearer to anyone. And so,
just building what you want becoming so
much easier. Just do it. Do something
that you like. I think it's going to be
for a lot of chances going to be
life-changing. And if not, at least
you'll have uh very little regret in the
future. Mayor, I'm going to skip the
lighting round, but I'm going to give
you because it's approaching midnight
your time. I want to make sure you get
some sleep. I'm going to ask you one
question. This something I meant to ask
you earlier, but I didn't. Uh base 44,
what is what is that about? Why did you
call it base 44? This is the most like
really the stupidest probably reason
that you hear for a for a name behind a
product. So again,
base 44 uh was not intended to be like a
very large scale like the the global
phenomena that it's becoming right now.
I wanted to have base in the name
because I feel like that's going to be
the base of where people's going to
start um build software or or solve
their pain and so on. And obviously back
then bass.com wasn't available and I
didn't have money to buy like a very
fancy domain. So I started seeing like I
think it was Cloudflare I don't remember
even what domain provider was that that
started showing me some numbers. My date
of birth is February 2nd and so uh base
22 wasn't available and say okay let's
double it and then base 44 I was like I
like the sound of it. It's almost like B
64 and for for uh the the nerd in me it
was like okay B 64 is one way to encode
uh data from from from one type to
another and it's like base 44 is going
to do the same. It's like encode natural
language into software and I was like
okay clicks let's go with it. Um, it's
good that it's memorable, the the number
in the name, but there's no real like
very sophisticated uh reason behind it.
That has an amazing story. I love I love
that you like B 64 was cool, but I guess
we'll all there's a reason 44 could be
cool and it's not even base 42. There's
all these like numbers around there that
people know and it's like no 44 double
my birthday sort of like 64. Uh, that's
amazing. Uh, it worked I guess. I don't
know. maybe shows you the power of how a
name doesn't necessarily make a huge
deal. Uh, interestingly, a recent
podcast episode was about how a name can
make a big deal. So, there's both sides
to it. Mayor, this was incredible. Thank
you so much for doing this. Uh,
congratulations on the outcome. I know
this is just the beginning. I know the
product is only going to get better.
What a fun place to be. Uh, hope you get
some sleep. Um, two final questions.
Where can folks check out what you're
building? Is it just bass4.com? Anything
else they should know? And how can
listeners be useful to you? Just try it
out. I think we're at a place where uh
people really love the product and and
for every user that we get, it turns out
to be two or four later on because
they're sharing it. So uh just try it
out base44.com and build something that
you like and if you have a bit more
time, just leave feedback so that uh we
can make it better. Amazing. Mayor,
thank you so much for being here. Thank
you, Lenny. Bye, everyone.
Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app. Also,
please consider giving us a rating or
leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.